Add Devlog post, fix header in older posts (#93)
Vanilla-OS/website: _posts/2023-06-11-vanilla-os-orchid-devlog.md

## ABRoot v2 - Immutability changes, once again

Throughout its lifespan, Vanilla OS has adopted [various approaches](https://vanillaos.org/2023/01/28/almost-vs-abroot.html) to achieve system immutability and atomicity from [Almost](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/almost) to [ABRoot](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/ABRoot). Thanks to a rapidly growing community, we have received excellent feedback. We listened to our community's opinions and learned from our mistakes. All of this has led to the conceptualization, design, and development of [ABRoot v2](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/ABRoot), a matured version of our system that brings numerous benefits, countless new possibilities, and a higher level of stability.

The new version is not just an update; the entire underlying structure has been rethought and rewritten from scratch to be the ideal solution for all use cases due to the use of OCI images.

> In ABRoot v1, obtaining and applying system updates was done by leveraging the package manager in an isolated and atomic environment. In ABRoot v2, the update operation now utilizes OCI ([Open Container Initiative](https://opencontainers.org)) images, which are exact copies of the new system, downloaded and allocated using data deduplication and applied in a single atomic transaction. This way, all installations of Vanilla OS receive the exact copy of the update, making the system 100% reproducible and faithful to our tests.

Reviewer: In v1 [...] is still done, not "was"

> In ABRoot v1, obtaining and applying system updates was done by leveraging the package manager in an isolated and atomic environment. In ABRoot v2, the update operation now utilizes OCI ([Open Container Initiative](https://opencontainers.org)) images, which are exact copies of the new system, downloaded and allocated using data deduplication and applied in a single atomic transaction. This way, all installations of Vanilla OS receive the exact copy of the update, making the system 100% reproducible and faithful to our tests.

Author: ```suggestion
In ABRoot v1, obtaining and applying system updates is done by leveraging the package manager in an isolated and atomic environment. In ABRoot v2, the update operation now utilizes OCI ([Open Container Initiative](https://opencontainers.org)) images, which are exact copies of the new system, downloaded and allocated using data deduplication and applied in a single atomic transaction. This way, all installations of Vanilla OS receive the exact copy of the update, making the system 100% reproducible and faithful to our tests.
```

It automatically raises the question, "How do I install extra drivers?" in Vanilla OS Orchid, installation of the most common drivers is a graphical and effortless process. However, there are cases where it is necessary to install additional packages in the system. For this reason, we have introduced a package manager in ABRoot v2 that allows users to manage their packages using atomic transactions.

Below is an example of the commands to add and remove packages:

```bash
abroot pkg add <your-package>
abroot pkg remove <your-package>
```

Once a package is added or removed, it will not be installed or removed from the system immediately. It will be up to the user to apply them with the command:

```bash
abroot pkg apply
```

> It will create a local image of the latest Vanilla OS version, adding or removing the desired packages. This new local image would be kept up to date automatically with the latest versions of Vanilla OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create a local image of the latest Vanilla OS version, adding or removing the desired packages. This new local image will be kept up-to-date automatically with the latest versions of Vanilla OS.
```

### Always Bootable

> One of the main features of this version, is the change in the boot management. In v1, a single boot partition managed and contained the kernel images, initrd, and GRUB configuration. In v2, this process changes significantly as the boot partition gets divided into two parts: root boot and master boot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the main features of this version is the change in boot management. In v1, a single boot partition managed and contained the kernel images, initrd, and GRUB configuration. In v2, this process changes significantly as the boot partition gets divided into two parts: root boot and master boot.
```

> Each root partition has its own boot, containing the GRUB configuration, kernel, and initrd images. These configurations get dynamically managed by the master boot, a general GRUB configuration that handles switching and loading the boot from the correct root based on the update status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each root partition has its own boot directory, containing the GRUB configuration, kernel, and initrd images. These configurations get dynamically managed by the master boot, a general GRUB configuration that handles switching and loading the boot files from the correct root based on the update status.
```

> Thanks to this new structure, the update process never modifies the master boot except atomically, ensuring and preserving the system's boot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thanks to this new structure, the update process never modifies the master boot except atomically, ensuring and preserving the system's boot integrity.
```

### Custom Images with Vib

> Since Vanilla OS is a general-purpose distribution, users may have specific needs that require modifications to the base structure of Vanilla OS, such as a different desktop environment. Thanks to the OCI image system, you can create your own custom image in just a few minutes by adding your customizations to the official image's recipe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Vanilla OS is a general-purpose distribution, users may have specific needs that require modifications to the base structure of Vanilla OS, such as a different desktop environment. Thanks to the OCI image system, you can create your own custom image in just a few minutes by adding your customizations on top of the official image's recipe.
```

To simplify this process, we have created a tool called [Vib (Vanilla Image Builder)](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/Vib), which provides a convenient method for creating OCI images using [recipes](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/core-image/blob/main/recipe.yml) and [modules](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/Vib#moule-structure).

More information and guides about creating your custom images will follow after the release of Orchid.

### Other features

> Among the many other features, we find improved management of kernel flags, the ability to roll back to a previous state, checking the system's integrity status, displaying useful metadata information such as added packages, removed packages, the last obtained image, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The are many more features coming to Vanilla OS with Orchid, such as improved management of kernel flags, the ability to roll back to a previous state, checking the system's integrity status, displaying useful metadata information such as added and removed removed packages, the last obtained image, and more.
```

## A New Structure

Vanilla OS Orchid consists of 3 main OCI images:

- [Pico](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/pico-image)
- [Core](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/core-image)
- [Desktop](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/desktop-image)

> [Pico](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/pico-image) is a minimal (~60MB) version of Debian built from the Vanilla OS repository.

Reviewer 3: It’s main purpose is to be the base for the vanilla Core Image and ofc the container in the vanilla subsystem

> [Pico](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/pico-image) is a minimal (~60MB) version of Debian built from the Vanilla OS repository.

Reviewer 4: Is it better?

[Core](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/core-image) is an image based on Pico, which adds all the core functionalities of Vanilla OS. It is the intended starting point for developing OCI images for Vanilla OS.

[Desktop](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/desktop-image) is the official system image based on Core. It offers the complete user experience designed for Vanilla OS, including the GNOME desktop and all the graphical tools developed by our team.

> ![System composition of Vanilla OS](/assets/uploads/images.webp)

Reviewer 5: IMHO the alt text here is already covered by the previous sentences, so lets reuse that:

> System composition of Vanilla OS, as described.

> ![System composition of Vanilla OS](/assets/uploads/images.webp)

Author: ```suggestion
![System composition of Vanilla OS, as described above](/assets/uploads/images.webp)
```

This division allows us to open the doors to every type of flavor, ranging from servers to desktops. It would also allow you to change your base system from Debian to your distribution of choice.

## Apx v2 and VSO v2

> Apx and VSO (Vanilla System Operator) have always been different utilities with nothing in common. It is changing in Vanilla OS Orchid, where the two tools collaborates to cover a wide range of use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apx and VSO (Vanilla System Operator) have so far been different utilities with nothing in common. This is changing in Vanilla OS Orchid, where both tools will work together to cover a wide range of use cases.
```

### Apx, as a developer tool

Apx v2 was designed primarily for developers and anyone who needs isolated and easily manageable environments, with integration with Vanilla OS.

In Apx v1, it was possible to use multiple package managers by specifying the dedicated flag, such as `--dnf` for Fedora or `--zypper` for openSUSE, making it easy to interact with packages from other Linux distributions.

Apx v2 still offers this possibility, but it does so through stacks that are configurable environments based on the user's needs.

> A stack is a set of instructions that can configure an environment based on any Linux distribution, adding packages and settings at the user's discretion. At any time, the user can create a new stack by defining a base Linux distribution, such as Arch Linux, and an optional list of packages. With this stack, the user can start one or more new subsystems based on that stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A stack is a set of instructions that can configure an environment based on any Linux distribution, adding packages and settings at the user's discretion. At any time, the user can create a new stack by defining a base Linux distribution, such as Arch Linux, and an optional list of packages. With this stack, the user can start one or more new subsystems based on it.
```

Once a subsystem gets created, the user can use package manager commands (install, remove, update, etc.) or enter the subsystem, just like in Apx v1.

Stacks are shareable and restoreable, so you can easily share them with your team. Apx v2 already has a set of preconfigured stacks to access all the major Linux distributions.

Thanks to this new structure, the user can create stacks for each use case, for example, one with all the tools and libraries useful for development in various domains like 3D applications, music production, programming, etc.

If something goes wrong, the subsystem can be restored by reinitializing it, resetting the environment to the state defined by the stack.

### VSO, as a system package manager

VSO v2 plays a crucial role in Vanilla OS Orchid. On top of managing update configurations, it will also handle the installation of Deb, Nix, and Apk packages through Waydroid.

#### Vanilla OS Subsystem

> Since Apx v2 is a tool designed for developers and more advanced users, which will receive several other features for this target audience over time, we have decided to create a new subsystem specifically for the end user, who is typically less experienced. In VSO v2, there is a subsystem based on Vanilla OS Pico. This subsystem will be a SystemD container and is deeply integrated into the system, allowing the most simple installation, removal, and management of packages, both graphically and from the command line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Apx v2 is a tool designed for developers and more advanced users, which will receive several other features for this target audience over time, we have decided to create a new subsystem specifically for the end user, who is typically less technologically inclined. In VSO v2, there is a subsystem based on Vanilla OS Pico. This subsystem will be a SystemD container deeply integrated into the system, allowing straightforward installation, removal, and management of packages, both graphically and through the command line.
```

> Since Apx v2 is a tool designed for developers and more advanced users, which will receive several other features for this target audience over time, we have decided to create a new subsystem specifically for the end user, who is typically less technologically inclined. In VSO v2, there is a subsystem based on Vanilla OS Pico. This subsystem will be a Systemd container deeply integrated into the system, allowing straightforward installation, removal, and management of packages, both graphically and through the command line.

Reviewer 3: Rereading carefully I noticed that this sentence was incorrectly corrected. It is not a systemd container but a system-integrated container, which supports systemd.

At any time, the user can access the command line to install packages using this subsystem or use the new graphical sideload utility to install Deb or Apk packages.

> ![Installing an Apk package of Chromium using the sideload utility](/assets/uploads/sideload-utility-install.webp)

Reviewer 5: > Installing a Chromium APK using the Waydroid sideload utility

> ![Installing an Apk package of Chromium using the sideload utility](/assets/uploads/sideload-utility-install.webp)

Author: Idk, if we should name it as "Waydroid sideload utility" here, wdyt @mirkobrombin ?

> ![Installing an Apk package of Chromium using the sideload utility](/assets/uploads/sideload-utility-install.webp)

Reviewer 3: The sideload utility is using vso which uses waydroid under the hood, so I would replace waydroid with vso to not make confusion.

> ![Installing an Apk package of Chromium using the sideload utility](/assets/uploads/sideload-utility-install.webp)

Reviewer 6: What about "Installing a Chromium APK using the graphical sideload utility"? Things can be sideloaded using cli too, can't they?

> ![Uninstalling an Apk package of Chromium using the sideload utility](/assets/uploads/sideload-utility-uninstall.webp)

Reviewer 5: > Uninstalling Chromium using the Waydroid sideload utility

> We are working to make access to the subsystem easier by integrating it with GNOME Software. We cannot promise this at the moment. But it is in our plans.

Reviewer 2: In other words, leave it to me 😝

Reviewer 3: ahahah

> We are working on making the subsystem easier to access by integrating it into the GNOME software. We can't promise this at this time. But it is in our plans.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
We are working on making the subsystem easier to access by integrating it into GNOME Software. We can't promise this at this time. But it is in our plans.
```

#### Waydroid

> Support for Android applications has been one of the most widely requested features by our community since the beginning of the project. Finally, this will be possible with VSO v2. The integration is similar to the Vanilla OS subsystem, as it will allow us to install Android APKs from the command line or through the Sideload application by simply downloading and opening an APK.

Reviewer 6: Maybe mention that it is using waydroid behind the scene. "It is similar to the Vanilla OS subsystem" is a bit confusing.

Reviewer 7: The title is literally Waydroid, and the similarity is explained in the paragraph.

Reviewer 7: I mean, the title is Waydroid. The similarities we are referring to are user facing.

#### Nix

> Support for Nix was previously a feature of Apx v1, but we realized that this feature is no longer compatible with the direction we are moving towards with Apx v2. Therefore, it has moved to VSO v2. Its functionality remains the same, but it has a new codebase that resolves many reported issues and provides a better user experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for Nix was previously a feature of Apx v1, but we realized that this feature is no longer compatible with the direction we are moving towards with Apx v2. Therefore, it has been moved to VSO v2. Its functionality remains the same, but it has a new codebase that resolves many reported issues and provides a better user experience.
```

Albius is written in Go and can install virtually any Linux-based operating system with the right group of commands, including distributions that use Squashfs for installation. Albius reads a JSON file containing the installation recipe and does the rest automatically, allowing for easier integration with applications written in any programming language.

One of the most significant features Albius introduces is LUKS2 encryption. LUKS2 allows you to encrypt your system for enhanced security and privacy. It was one of most highly requested features from our laptop users. Now they can carry their laptops with them without any worries.

## Sudon't

During the design process of Orchid, one of the discussions that frequently arose was about the usefulness of the `sudo` command. Vanilla OS is an immutable system, and any modifications should occur through Apx, VSO, or ABRoot (especially with Orchid). We questioned whether it was worth including a command like `sudo` in the distribution and what benefits its removal would bring. From our analysis and discussions we identified several advantages of removing the `sudo` command.

> By eliminating `sudo`, the risk of accidental or harmful operations performed by unauthorized entities would get reduced. Since Vanilla OS promotes a secure and stable environment, we are limiting privileged access to help preserve the system's integrity. The absence of `sudo` would encourage the adoption of a more structured approach to privilege management. Tools like Apx, VSO, and ABRoot offer specific mechanisms for system administration, allowing users to perform configuration and update operations securely and in a controlled manner. By removing `sudo`, use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on insecure commands prone to errors and abuse. Additionally, utilities like Systemd already allow for sudo-less management of units, and we can't think of any other use cases where sudo would be necessary.

Reviewer 5: I think this sentence:

> By removing `sudo`, use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on insecure commands prone to errors and abuse.

Could be changed to:

> By removing `sudo`, use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on potentially misused commands.

Or something along those lines. The argument of sudo being insecure is better done elsewhere.

> By eliminating `sudo`, the risk of accidental or harmful operations performed by unauthorized entities would get reduced. Since Vanilla OS promotes a secure and stable environment, we are limiting privileged access to help preserve the system's integrity. The absence of `sudo` would encourage the adoption of a more structured approach to privilege management. Tools like Apx, VSO, and ABRoot offer specific mechanisms for system administration, allowing users to perform configuration and update operations securely and in a controlled manner. By removing `sudo`, use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on insecure commands prone to errors and abuse. Additionally, utilities like Systemd already allow for sudo-less management of units, and we can't think of any other use cases where sudo would be necessary.

Author: ```suggestion
By eliminating `sudo`, the risk of accidental or harmful operations performed by unauthorized entities would get reduced. Since Vanilla OS promotes a secure and stable environment, we are limiting privileged access to help preserve the system's integrity. The absence of `sudo` would encourage the adoption of a more structured approach to privilege management. Tools like Apx, VSO, and ABRoot offer specific mechanisms for system administration, allowing users to perform configuration and update operations securely and in a controlled manner. By removing sudo, use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on potentially misused commands. Additionally, utilities like Systemd already allow for sudo-less management of units, and we can't think of any other use cases where sudo would be necessary.
```

The second suggestion LGTM, will apply it.

> By eliminating `sudo`, the risk of accidental or harmful operations performed by unauthorized entities would get reduced. Since Vanilla OS promotes a secure and stable environment, we are limiting privileged access to help preserve the system's integrity. The absence of `sudo` would encourage the adoption of a more structured approach to privilege management. Tools like Apx, VSO, and ABRoot offer specific mechanisms for system administration, allowing users to perform configuration and update operations securely and in a controlled manner. By removing sudo, the use of specialized tools will get promoted instead of relying on potentially misused commands. Additionally, utilities like systemd already allow for sudo-less management of units, and we can't think of any other use cases where sudo would be necessary.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
By eliminating `sudo`, the risk of accidental or harmful operations performed by unauthorized entities would get reduced. Since Vanilla OS promotes a secure and stable environment, we are limiting privileged access to help preserve the system's integrity. The absence of `sudo` would encourage the adoption of a more structured approach to privilege management. Tools like Apx, VSO, and ABRoot offer specific mechanisms for system administration, allowing users to perform configuration and update operations securely and in a controlled manner. By removing `sudo`, the use of specialized tools will get encouraged instead of relying on potentially misused commands. Additionally, utilities like systemd already allow for sudo-less management of units, and we can't think of any other use cases where `sudo` would be necessary.
```

For this reason we have chosen to go down this path and remove the `sudo` command. However, the `pkexec` command remains available, which is more suitable for a desktop environment. All your operations requiring root privileges will function the same, with the only difference is another command to invoke the root privileges, which does that in a safer manner than `sudo`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe it's also good to highlight that sudo will remain available inside Apx

Reviewer 3: Since Apx v2 use stacks and support *every* distribution as a base, we can't assume this in Apx, but we can in VSO.

> For this reason we have chosen to go down this path and remove the `sudo` command. However, the `pkexec` command remains available, which is more suitable for a desktop environment. All your operations requiring root privileges will function the same, with the only difference is another command to invoke the root privileges, which does that in a safer manner than `sudo`.

Reviewer 6: Maybe pkexec can be explained in a bit more detail? The reader will not necessarily know what pkexec is.

Reviewer 7: The technicalities won't really matter. As explained in the paragraph, operations will be the same, just another command to invoke the root privileges:
```sudo nano /etc/example.json```
becomes
```pkexec nano /etc/example.json```

Reviewer 6: > The technicalities won't really matter.

The line "However, the `pkexec` command **remains available**, which is more suitable for a desktop environment." kind of allude that the reader knows what `pkexec` is. I am not suggesting going into technical details, but maybe it can be reworded to make better sense.

Something like "However you can do everything you need to do as root by using another command called `pkexec`, which is more suitable for a desktop environment."

Reviewer 7: > > The technicalities won't really matter.
> 
> The line "However, the `pkexec` command **remains available**, which is more suitable for a desktop environment." kind of allude that the reader knows what `pkexec` is. I am not suggesting going into technical details, but maybe it can be reworded to make better sense.
> 
> Something like "However you can do everything you need to do as root by using another command called `pkexec`, which is more suitable for a desktop environment."

That's exactly what I'm trying to imply with:
> All your operations requiring root privileges will function the same, with the only difference is another command to invoke the root privileges, which does that in a safer manner than `sudo`.

## Prometheus

With the adoption of OCI images, many system components need to be able to work with this new structure. To simplify image development and management, we have developed [Prometheus*](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/Prometheus), a container library/engine written in Go, that enables working with and manipulating OCI images.

Prometheus provides a convenient and easily extendable method for obtaining, building and managing OCI images in all our projects. Both ABRoot v2 and Albius leverage Prometheus to get, extract, and build new images if necessary. Compared to other integrations we have experimented with, Prometheus offers a streamlined implementation and improved performance over previous implementations we have tested.

*Prometheus was the Titan of Greek mythology who stole fire from the gods to give it to humans.

## Eratosthenes

> With the switch to Debian as the base for Orchid, we had to create our own repositories to manage package freezes and packages. It was not only a week-long effort, but it led to the need for a platform to display package details from the repositories.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
With the switch to Debian as the base for Orchid, we had to create our own repositories to manage package freezes and packages. This was not only a week-long effort, but it led to the need for a platform to display package details from the repositories.
```

Unfortunately, most currently available platforms for this purpose did not meet our UX standards and offered a complex and outdated interface. That's why we developed [Eratosthenes*](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/Eratosthenes), a platform based on Flask and written in Python, which allows easy searching and reading of package details directly from our repositories.

You can check out the platform by visiting [repo.vanillaos.org](https://repo.vanillaos.org).

*Eratosthenes was a Greek mathematician, astronomer, and geographer.

## Atlas

With the introduction of OCI images in Vanilla OS, there arose a need to provide a convenient and simplified method for developers to access image details. For this reason, we created [Atlas*](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/Atlas), a platform that lists the images used in Vanilla OS and allows users to read their specifications and composition.

Atlas is built with VueJS and designed to be easily navigatable, displaying all image details clearly and intuitively. Users can read about the build steps, size, layers, and other details for creating a variant of Vanilla OS.

> Currently, the platform showcases the Pico, Core, and Desktop images, but this list might expand in the future to include new compliant images.

Reviewer 2: It also lists Dev

You can test the platform by visiting [images.vanillaos.org](https://images.vanillaos.org/).

*Atlas was the Titan of Greek mythology condemned to hold up the heavens or sky for eternity.

## New Wallpaper

Like every Linux distribution that sees a new major update, Vanilla OS Orchid has received a new official wallpaper. [Kramo](https://github.com/kra-mo) has been working hard on this. He has made a wallpaper highlighting the new light that Orchid brings to Vanilla OS.

> ![Orchid Wallpaper - Light varient](/assets/uploads/orchid-light.webp)

Reviewer 4: @orowith2os

(typo: varient -> variant)

Reviewer 5: > Orchid Wallpaper, light variant: A 2D vanilla orchid over a sky-based wallpaper

Author: ```suggestion
![Orchid Wallpaper, light variant: A 2D image of vanilla orchid over a sky-based wallpaper](/assets/uploads/orchid-light.webp)
```

The new wallpaper comes in two colors, light and dark, and it represents a vanilla orchid in a pure environment, which embodies the pure essence of Vanilla OS and the desire to provide a simple and relaxing user experience.

> ![Orchid Wallpaper - Dark varient](/assets/uploads/orchid-dark.webp)

Reviewer 4: @orowith2os 

(typo: varient -> variant)

Reviewer 5: > Orchid Wallpaper, dark variant: A 2D vanilla orchid over a plant-based wallpaper

Author: ```suggestion
![Orchid Wallpaper, dark variant: A 2D image of vanilla orchid over a plant-based wallpaper](/assets/uploads/orchid-dark.webp)
```

## Other news

There are many new features we have worked on, and we cannot cover them all in detail in a single article for various reasons. However, we can briefly mention some of them.

> ![Drivers Utility](/assets/uploads/drivers-utility.webp)

Reviewer 3: This should be placed after the next paragraph since it looks a bit out of co text here.

Author: Done, updated it.

> As announced in the previous article, we have been working on changes to support OEM in Vanilla OS. It includes moving user creation and other installer steps to the [First Setup](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/first-setup) and improving the user experience of both the Installer and First Setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As announced in the previous article, we have been working on changes to support OEM in Vanilla OS. This includes moving user creation and other installer steps to [First Setup](https://github.com/Vanilla-OS/first-setup) and improving the user experience of both the Installer and First Setup.
```

> ![Drivers Utility](/assets/uploads/drivers-utility.webp)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
![Hardware driver utility asking to install the drivers for am HP Laserjet P1102](/assets/uploads/drivers-utility.webp)
```

> ![Hardware driver utility asking to install the drivers for am HP Laserjet P1102](/assets/uploads/drivers-utility.webp)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
![Hardware driver utility asking to install the drivers for an HP Laserjet P1102](/assets/uploads/drivers-utility.webp)
```

Among the various new features we are working on for the installer is a new Recovery mode with easy access to all recovery tools like the terminal, ABRoot recovery, the browser, and more. Additionally, we are working on a recovery partition that allows graphical restoration of one's Vanilla OS installation if anything gets compromised due to external causes.

> ![Recovery utility](/assets/uploads/recovery-utility.webp)

Author: Sorry, lost the suggestions in between the conversation. I will apply the changes tomorrow morning.

> ![Recovery utility](/assets/uploads/recovery-utility.webp)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
![The described Recovery Mode with the following menus: Reinstall Vanilla OS, and Advanced Utilities: Disks Utility, Rescue Shell, Web Browser, and Repair File System.](/assets/uploads/recovery-utility.webp)
```

---

> The development of Vanilla OS 2.0 is progressing rapidly, and more news will follow soon!

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The development of Vanilla OS Orchid is progressing rapidly, and more news will follow soon!
```

> For latest updates, checkout the [roadmap](https://vanillaos.org/roadmap) and the [project tracker](https://github.com/orgs/Vanilla-OS/projects/4).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For the latest updates, checkout the [roadmap](https://vanillaos.org/roadmap) and the [project tracker](https://github.com/orgs/Vanilla-OS/projects/4).
```

Reviewer 2: I think "checkout" should be "check out"

Reviewer 7: Added, thanks
